---
title: 'Monthly report: November 2020'
layout: monthly-performance
month: Nov-2020
---

My portfolio returned 15.1% in November while SPY returned 10.75%. The portfolio increased in value by $8,354, bringing the cumulative net P/L of the portfolio since open to $11,145.03. 11 option positions were closed, resulting in net profit of $2,391.00.

10 of the 11 closed positions results in a profit. The one loss was from PLUG. I opened a short straddle on it because the underlying was pretty inexpensive. However, there were two problems with this play. First, Questrade maintains a 100% short margin requirement on PLUG. This is over three times the standard 30% short margin requirement on almost every other stock. In order to open a short position on PLUG, I had to put up 100% of the capital. A bigger than expected portion of my portfolio margin was locked up in this trade preventing me from opening other plays.

The second problem was that PLUG is a real 'mover and shaker' to quote [Dr. Jim Schultz](https://www.tastytrade.com/tt/bio/jim-schultz). In just over 2 months, PLUG went from $12.24 on September 14th when I opened the position to $26.72 on November 24th, when I decided to accept defeat, close the position, and lick my wounds. That's an increase of 118% in about 9 weeks. Unreal!

The lesson I learned was to avoid underlyings with >30% short margin requirement and to trade speculative 'meme' stocks (e.g. PLUG, SPCE, PLTR) _with extreme caution_. Had I opened an iron condor instead of a short straddle, a big chunk of my loss would have been avoided.

### Joining Predicting Alpha

A Redditor pointed me in the direction of [Predicting Alpha](https://www.predictingalpha.com) (aka PA), an option trading club and market data provider based in Canada. He shared a very positive testimonial about how the group helped him improve his trading game. The monthly subscription cost USD $90/month. At first, I was hesitant about paying people to receive their 'secrets to trading success', but I figured I should give it a shot based on this testimonial. In the worst-case scenario, I would be out $90 which will not break the bank.

I've been part of the club for about 3 weeks now and so far, I am enjoying the experience. PA provides a number of benefits to members; 1-on-1 weekly coaching, access to a Discord community of like-minded member traders, an entire curriculum going through 4 levels of option trading knowledge, and daily hour-long workshops  

One significant step I took, with the coaching of Predicting Alpha, was to move my options trading account off [Questrade](https://www.questrade.com) to [Interactive Brokers](https://www.interactivebrokers.ca) (aka IKBR). One reason I chose to migrate was that IBKR offers _significantly_ lower options tradign commissions than Questrade. Making a two-leg straddle or strangle on Questrade cost $6.45 in fees (and that is on top of the $80/month. I paid for [Active Trader](https://www.questrade.com/pricing/self-directed-commissions-plans-fees/active-trader) status). On IKBR, I can make the same two-leg trade for less than $2. IKBR also charges monthly data fees for streaming data, but its only about $25/month.

The second reason was that my confidence in trading increased significantly since I initially experimented with IKBR around the start of the year. I've traded options for over a year and used a broker platform (IQ Edge) for the majority of that time, I feel much more confident in placing trades, understanding pricing, and adjusting positions. Trader Workstation is much less intuitive and sometimes just plain backwards compared to IQ Edge. Using the product made me very concerned about putting on some trades that I did not fully understand the risk. Many of the PA members, including the founders, are Canadian, giving me a good resource to ask questions and get support from.

### Next Month

I am moving from Questrade to Interactive Brokers. I could have transferred the whole account but Questrade would have charged me $150 to do so. Instead, I decided to slowly unwind my positions in Questrade and withdraw cash, then deposit that cash in my Interactive Brokers account. I moved about USD $30k already, but did not want to do more because I wanted to maintain required maintenance excess in Questrade. Because I didn't want to take a loss on my remaining open positions at Questrade, I rolled those positions out several months in the future. The consequence is that I need to maintain some cash in the account to meet margin requirements.

Something that I must spend time on is understanding how IBKR reports monthly performance for their clients. All the charts and tables on this site use a pretty simple data structure defined by Questrade's monthly statements. If IBKR produces its monthly statements using the same data points, then reporting from ongoing performance from IBKR should be pretty easy. If their statements lack this data and do not make it easily accessible elsewhere, I will need to update the charts and tables on this site to accomodate IBKR's structure. My hope is that the metrics I employ on this site for tracking my trading progress are elementary enough that all brokers will record them. If not, then I will need to spend a good period of time understanding IBKR's monthly statements and how to extract, transform, and load it in the format this site expects. Alternatively, I suppose that I could redesign the chart and table structures but that seems like it should be a last resort only.

I will also be working through the Predicting Alpha curriculum and experimenting with taking a more 'volatility-focused' perspective to trading. Using the PA education, I will practice making trades not based purely on IV rank (like Tastytrade) but on evaluating whether IV is over/under stated and whether options are trading at a fair price.
