---
title: 'Monthly report: July 2020'
month: Jul-2020
layout: monthly-performance
---

Don't be fooled by the large closing balance; the big increase is due to a deposit of around $7k USD that was sitting in my USD savings account. This was cash leftover from when I experimented trading on [Interactive Brokers](https://www.interactivebrokers.ca). Even though the fees are cheaper and there are some UI features about Trader Workstation that I love, I find the overall user interface clumsy and confusing. It made me nervous trading options so I decided to close the account and stick with Questrade, at least until [TastyWorks](https://www.tastyworks.com) launches in Canada, which Tom Sosnoff said will happen this year (however that was pre-COVID-19).

The reason I finally decided to move this money into my margin trading account for speculative options trades was twofold. First, Questrade finally enabled deposits from bank accounts holding US dollars. As I went through the process last month to perform the transfer, I remembered that I tried this before about a year ago but was somehow blocked. However, I was successful this time, meaning I could move the money directly without any foreign exchange fees.

The second reason was that I evolved my approach to investing as I pondered deeper on the [TastyTrade](https://www.tastytrade.com)-style statistical investing. I realized that their motto - "Trade small, trade often" - means success comes to those who make a large number of smaller trades. To increase my overall profit from trading options, I needed to greatly increase the number of trades. More trades *should* result in more chances in having more successful trades. However, in order to make more trades, I needed to increase my bankroll, which explains the deposit.

July was a great month with 13 closed winning trades and only 1 closed small loser. The loser was a FXI trade that I opened in November and rolled for months and months due to the market crash from COVID-19. The trade closed with a small gross profit, however I incurred nearly $80 in fees, which resulted in a $60 net loss.

I did my first (planned) earnings trades this month. I played earnings on IBM (iron condor), MSFT (put credit spread), and EA (strangle). I got lucky with all three, which made me hungry for more earnings trades in August.

My most enjoyable trade this month was Shake Shack (SHAK). I had no idea they were publicly listed, nor that they had an active options market. My wife and I have very fond memories of Shake Shack from our two New York City and one Washington, DC trips pre-children. She declared Shake Shack to be her favourite burger chain, so I couldn't resist the opportunity to trade the company.
