---
title: 'Monthly report: October 2020'
layout: monthly-performance
month: Oct-2020
---
October was a dismal month. It started off strong with SPY rising by 20 points until the 12th when is started declining to close about 10 points below the monthly opening. As a result, The portfolio underperformed SPY by about 50%. It lost 5% value while SPY only lost about half that amount.

The rise and fall of prices meant that many of my options positions ended up in the money, preventing me from closing them and instead forcing me to roll to December or beyond. Many of my long stock positions crashed, causing the decline in portfolio value.

Despite this, I was able to close a few positions. My SLV short straddle was profitable, again. This strategy in SLV (and also UNG) has been consistently profitable over the past few months.

I was glad to close my NIO position as I noticed that it as a 100% short margin requirement, meaning I have to put up the full value of the contracts when writing options. The significant majority of other stocks only have a short margin requirement of 30%. Higher margin requirements mean higher reductions to buying power/maintenance excess, which means less opportunity to put on more trades. I updated my trading plan to only stick on trading underlyings with the standard 30% short margin requirement to not over-allocate capital.

I was also glad to _finally_ close the short iron condor that I had on XLU since April. I ended up getting assigned on a short put back in May, so I have been sitting on shares about five months. Being assigned and buying the shares reducing my available capital for writing trades, so I am glad to be rid of the stock to free up that capital.
