---
title: 'Monthly report: April 2021 (and February and March)'
layout: monthly-performance
month: Apr-2021
---

(Three-ish months behind again; this seems to be becoming a habit. Maybe these should be quarterly reports?)

I will sum up my option trading over the past three months as follows:
* February: awful, terrible, no good!
* March: good
* April: incredible!

Its been awhile so I don't remember all the details. In February, my losses stemmed from BIDU earnings. I had an iron condor on. BIDU had a big move up, so I closed my $10 wide call spread at nearly max loss ($1000!) and doubled down by opening another short put spread. Because why not try to regain my losses by riding the upward momentum right? Except that a few days later, BIDU had a **MASSIVE** sell off and never recovered. I ended up closing both my short put spreads at big losses. That hurt my account and my confidence.

I learned many lessons from the experience. First, *do not chase losing trades*, especially ones that are defined risk. If a trade is a loser, then let it lose. Don't put more money after it to try and recover (sadly this is a lesson I still haven't fully incorporated yet). I feel there is a difference, however, between trade defence and chasing losers. Trade defence is comes down to adding time to be right. The common trade defence mechanics of "roll up (or down), roll out, and go inverted" are examples.

Second, *never be in a trade that you don't want to be in*. After I doubled down on the short put, which became a loser, I realized that I should not have been in that trade. I had no good reason for being in that trade aside from trying to recover from a loss. I had no idea what volatility was or if my double short put spreads were smart plays based on my portfolio and market conditions. Realizing that I no longer want to be in the trade convinced me to close the trade early, luckily avoiding another max loss (which would have been awful because it would have been a double max loss).

Third, *be 110% comfortable with the size of your defined risk*. The wings of the iron condor were $10 wide for no other reason than that is what TastyTrade recommends as an optimal width (and to be honest, I don't even recall how true that is; I think its because it more closely represents the risk/reward of a strangle while not chewing up too much buying power). However I forgot that a max loss on a $10 wide iron condor will be $1000 dollars. While my account could handle it, I couldn't psychologically. Something about losing $1000 on a single trade just doesn't sit right in my guts. $500 I'm okay with. $750 I can live with too. But losing $1000 just hurts. This is a good lesson in how much of a psychological game that trading is.

So while February was an awful month, things really picked up in both March and April. Both featured very strong gains on closed positions. I more than recovered my losses from February. My confidence recovered however I have to be careful not to be overconfident now and make dumb plays just for the sake of pressing buttons in Trader Workstation.

While my profits from closed positions were high (about $USD 8k), I am HODL'ing some deep-in-the-money short puts that are weighing down my overall performance (e.g. TAN). I'm still not a fan of closing big losers. After all, losing short puts *should* eventually recover. However, I need to be smarter about it, I think. If IV is low, then I'm not really gaining anything by rolling a losing short put other than collecting some time premium and hoping for a speedy recovery. After all, does it make sense *as a vol trader* to hold on a low vol losing position instead of closing it and instead opening a new position in a high vol underlying? Probably not.

Letting go of losers is *tough*. The longer I stay in this game, the more I see how important it is to be comfortable with risk, have the guts to walk away from bad trades, and mechanically follow a solid plan.
