---
title: 'Monthly report: January 2021'
layout: monthly-performance
month: Jan-2021
---

(Three-ish months behind, but better late than never.)

Before I go on, a couple of important changes to share. First, I (finally) adapted my datasets to combine trading performance from both my Questrade and Interactive Brokers accounts. This took a bit of work because monthly statements from each brokerage contain very different content. I had to modify my spreadsheet to input values from both brokerages then normalize and aggregate their values in to a single sheet. So now all the values you see reflect  my trading performance combined across both brokerages. In January, I closed many positions in Questrade and moved that cash over to Interactive Brokers. Over the next few months, I will continue to unwind my Questrade positions and move the cash over to Interactive Brokers, simplifying this process. It will only repeat itself if/when [tastyworks](https://www.tastyworks.com) *finally* opens in Canada.

Second, I noticed that I was using the wrong currency to report my Questrade performance. Even though my margin account is contains only US dollars and trades only on US exchanges, Questrade's monthly statement reports values in Canadian dollars. I failed to notice this over the past 18+ months and displayed the values on this site as if they were in US dollars. I corrected that mistake for *all* months that I've been trading options (since August 2019). The impact is that my profits and losses will appear lower than initially published (as the Canadian dollars is about only worth about $0.75 US dollars).

Third, I removed the closed positions table from the monthly reports. I stopped using the custom database I created in [Tap Forms](https://www.tapforms.com) and started using [Wingman](https://www.wingmantracker.com) to track my trades in Interactive Brokers. Now, if I wanted to report all positions closed in a specific month, I will need to repeat the similar steps as above for amalgamating trade performance between both brokers; I must export and merge the data between Tap Forms and Wingman, normalize it into a single table, then export the result. Although I feel reporting the monthly closed positions is helpful to illustrate exactly how my P/L was realized, I'm not interested in doing all this work at this time and on-going for each month I report. This table *may* reappear sometime in the future if I find an easy way to gather and normalize the data.

So the January 2021 report will be short and sweet. As I mentioned above, I continued to close my positions in Questrade and move funds to my Interactive Brokers account. It was a busy month with about 32 positions closed. I am much happier with the significantly reduced fees that I can take advantage of in Interactive Brokers. I did some earnings trades and some directional trades. Most were short volatility trades via short strangles. I was introduced to some really interesting sector ETFs: [LIT](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/LIT?p=LIT&.tsrc=fin-srch) the **Global X Lithium & Battery Tech ETF** and [TAN](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/TAN?p=TAN&.tsrc=fin-srch) **Invesco Solar ETF**. Both funds have huge volatility, low underlying price, and small spreads. These factors are ideal for making short volatility plays without consuming too much buying power. I love both these ETFs. In fact, my most profitable trade this month ($634) was a short strangle on LIT.
