---
title: 'Monthly report: December 2020'
layout: monthly-performance
month: Dec-2020
---

The report this month will be a bit odd as I switched from Questrade to Interactive Brokers. Rather than pay Questrade's outrageous $150 fee to transfer positions to another broker, I elected to liquidate my positions (if they could be closed for a profit) and transfer funds to Interactive Brokers. Because of this, my ability to perform trades was limited. I had to wait for the funds to move from Questrade to my bank account, then from my bank account to Interactive Brokers, then wait the mandatory 5 business day clearance period. I was able to make some trades in IBKR in December, however I was only able to eek out about $200 profit. The values below reflect the combination of my Questrade and Interactive Brokers accounts.

In future, I will only be reporting on performance in my IBKR account. Nearly all of my positions and cash in Questrade have been closed, settled, and transferred. I only hold some short positions in GDX, EWZ, XOP, and UNG. These options have expirations in February and March. As they come close to expiration, I will close them and transfer the funds to IBKR. Now that I am no longer paying the **Active Trader** fee at Questrade, option trades are *even more* ridiculously expensive. I am hesistant to continue managing and rolling the remaining Questrade positions to avoid getting gouged by fees. When the time comes, I may just need to accept taking a loss in order to drain that account and fully fund my IBKR account.

Even with all the chaotic fund transfers and broker migrations, December was a pretty decent month. The portfolio returned 5.10%, beating the SPY's return of 3.71%. The portfolio value increased by $2,148. Cumulative portfolio net profit is now $13,229.51.

The trades listed below only reflect positions closed in Questrade. Around the same time that I discovered Predicting Alpha, I also discovered [Wingman Tracker](https://www.wingmantracker.com). It is a fantastic portfolio tracking app designed for option traders. The *best* feature is its ability to import trades from CSV files exported from brokers. Users, at the end of their trading day, can export their daily trading activity into a CSV, which can then be imported into Wingman. No more manual entry for each trade! The app is even smart enough to group trades together by strategy automatically. Its truly incredible!

Moving to Wingman means that I will no longer be tracking trades in my [Tap Forms](https://www.tapforms.com) desktop database app. While Tap Forms was a very powerful application, I am eager to save time by no longer manually entering each trade into the database. The consequence is that I need to find the best way to export trade outcomes from Wingman for display on this blog. I expect this won't be a major challenge but just requires some dedicated time to solve.
